The Bent Bullet 
BY HARPER SIMMONS 
The eyes of John F. Kennedy's killer are not unkind. Ws a peculiar, if quiet, revelation to make here, in his company. The killer resides in a federal correctional facility — a classified location that's at least a quarter-mile underground, and presumably miles from anywhere important. The facility is constructed from concrete amalgams and transparent materials so secret and durable, they don't even have a name. In the event of a global nuclear holocaust, a government contractor once said, only two things will survive: "the cockroaches and that guy.” 

He was called "The most dangerous man in the world" by President Lyndon B. Johnson, five decades ago. 

His eyes are blue. His face is slender, deeply lined, made longer still by a natural frown. Still, he appears younger than most men his age. He's presumed to be 80 years old.

According to the correctional officers here, Kennedy's killer is a voracious reader. This seems true. More than a dozen books pepper the prisoner's spartan cell. Most are nonfiction books about social issues, such as Trish Tilby's recent expose, District X. But a few novels are present, including a dogeared copy of T.H. White's The Once and Future King.

You won't find a tablet computer or e-reader here, of course. There's nothing with a conventional circuit board or metal enclosure within a half-mile radius of this place.

More than 1,000 books — and very likely a thousand essays — have been written about the Nov. 22,1963 assassination of President Kennedy. Nearly all have investigated the lives of people like Lee Harvey Oswald and Jack Ruby. Most have criticized the findings of the Warren Commission, the task force appointed by President Johnson to investigate the Kennedy assassination.

These critics insist the Warren Commission's final report was a rushed, inadequately researched frame-up. Nearly all proudly provide their own conspiracy theories about the events on that dreadful day in Dallas. And most insist that the man here— the man convicted of killing the president fifty years ago—is innocent

Erik Lehnsherr: The man who calls himself Magneto. 


Before the X-Gene 
To understand Lehnsherr's motives — or, rather, the motives the Warren Report alleged he had— one must understand the era in which the Kennedy assassination occurred_ 

When Kennedy took office in 1961, the civil rights movement had captured national attention and political allies ... and powerful enemies, especially in the South. The X-Gene and mutants were not yet a part of the public consciousness, though they would soon become so, due in large part to Lehnsherr's activities. 

The world was 15 years into the Cold War. Tensions between the US. and the Soviet Union were at a breaking point. By October 1962, the Cuban Missile Crisis was unfolding, and the world faced imminent nuclear war. Last year, the CIA and the Homeland Mutant Response Division released previously-classified documents stating the crisis was infect orchestrated by a mutant and former Nazi named Sebastian Shaw. His goal was the extermination of homo sapiens worldwide. 

Also declassified was the revelation that the Cuban Missile Crisis was thwarted by a clandestine CIA team called "Division X." Division X was comprised of several mutants led by Charles Xavier. Lehnsherr was also a member. His mastery of magnetism proved invaluable during the operation.

After the confrontation, Lehnsherr immediately left the team. He and other Division X members founded the Brotherhood of Mutants, an organization the FBI would quickly classify as .a pro-mutant terrorist group.. Division X disbanded days later. All evidence of its existence was sealed by the CIA. 

While the outcome of the crisis was widely considered a victory for the Kennedy administration, it didn't last. By early 1963, rumors swirled around the event as U.S. and Soviet witnesses to the Oct. 28 confrontation — nearly all of whom were naval officers — shared their unusual experience with other military personnel, civilians and even the media.

"It was a different time,. explains "Scary. Carey Morrison, a veteran radio personality. Morrison has hosted the conspiracy theory show What If...? since 19T1. "Back then, if you talked about folks with superpowers, you might as well be talking about little green moon men. Most didn't believe.”

A few citizens in 1963 did believe, however, and leveraged their fear and [article is missing here].

Treasonous President

In 1963, tensions in America were nearing a breaking point The civil rights movement dominated national media coverage. X-Gene mutants, while still a rumored subculture atthe time, were targeted by Radical conservative groups. Right-wing extremists decried racial and genetic integration, insisting PresidentJohn F. Kennedy was — as one agitator put it — a "tyranny that clanks his chains upon the South.”

After the previous year's Cuban Missile Crisis (in which several mutants —inducting Erik Lehnsherr, aka “Magneto” —were witnessed performing incredible feats), right-wing leaders soon alluded to mutants in their rhetoric.

When Kennedy arrived in Dallas on Nov. 22, radical organizations had published flyers accusing him of treason One such flyer, seen here, prompted Kennedy to remark to his wife Jackie: "We're really in nut country.”

The Bent Bullet 
The Warren Commission theorized that Lehnsherr was present at the assassination site and used his mutant powers to control the path of the second bullet, ensuring it hit the president.
 
The 1.2”-long bullet passed through the men In an unlikely vector, entering Kennedy's upper back, exiting through his throat, slicing through his shirt collar and nicking the knot off his Christian Dior tie. It then entered Connally's back, near his right armpit. It tore through the governor's body, obliterated one of his ribs, and exited just below his right nipple. The bullet then smashed through Connally's right wrist, and pierced his left thigh.

Scientists then and now say this “bent bullet" theory is possible. “But that doesn’t mean it’d be easy," says Kelly Seagle, a Physics professor at Stanford University. “It'd be like catching a housefly with chopsticks — except the fly is traveling 1,700 feet per second.”


Seeing Double 
Following his arrest, Lee Harvey Oswald repeatedly insisted he'd been framed. The theory of an "Oswald double" is a popular one. According to conspiracy enthusiasts, Oswald was spotted in more than one Dallas locale at the same time during November 1963. Oswald's wife Marina later told investigators her husband behaved "like a different person. in the weeks leading up to Kennedy's visit And while a partial palm print matching Oswald's was discovered on the barrel of the rifle left at the Book Depository, several other prints — which didn't appear human at all — were also catalogued.

Two days after Lee Harvey Oswald was arrested, he was murdered by Jack Ruby, a Dallas nightclub operator. Ruby initially claimed he killed Oswald to save "Mrs. Kennedy the pain of coming back (to Dallas) for a trial.”

Ruby later recanted this confession, claiming he couldn't recall much of late November, including his whereabouts °lithe day he killed Oswald. He told Warren Commission investigators that his life was in danger. "I'm remembering things now,” he told them in December. "I'm being punished. Punished for what we did.’ (He did not elaborate.) Ruby also claimed a flu vaccination he'd received while in custody was in fact filled with cancer cells. 

On Jan. 20th, I964, Ruby was convicted of murdering Oswald with malice, and was sentenced to death. Two days later, after being diagnosed with pneumonia, doctors discovered rampant cancer in Ruby's liver, lungs, and brain.

Two days after that, Jack Ruby was dead. 

Circumstantial Evidence, Denials & Paranoia

Not long after arriving at Dallas police headquarters, Oswald was questioned by reporters."I didn't shoot anybody,” he told them. “They’ve taken me in because I lived in the Soviet Union. I’m just a patsy.”

Oswald confessed to the assassination of Gen. Edwin Partridge (which surprised police), but repeatedly denied killing Kennedy or Tippit. He also denied owning a rifle, claiming that photographs of him holding a Carcano rifle and a revolver were phony. During the next two days, Oswald was questioned several times by government agents, including CIA, Secret Service and officials who would later establish the Federal Council on Mutant Activities. (FCMA’s 1974 findings would provide grounds to create the Homeland Mutant Response Division two years later.) 

If you want me to cop to killing (Gen. Partridge), I'll cop to that,. Oswald told them."That was like getting rid of Hitler at the right time. But I do deny shooting Kennedy and Tippit Whoever those witnesses saw, that wasn't me. That must he some kind of double.. 

The theory of an "Oswald double" is a popular one. According to conspiracy enthusiasts, Oswald was spotted in more than one Dallas locale at the same time during November 1963. Oswald's wife Marina later told investigators her husband behaved “like a different person in the weeks leading up to Kennedy's visit.

Dallas police moved forward with charging Oswald, despite possessing circumstantial evidence.

A partial palm print matching Oswald’s was discovered on the barrel of the [article is missing here].

The Trial of Magneto 
On Friday, Feb. 4, 1964, President Johnson noted in a closed-door meeting with the Warren Commission that "The most dangerous man in the world" —Lehnsherr, the Commission's prime suspect in Kennedy's assassination—was in custody.

Lehnsherr’s private trial began the next week Recently-declassified court records state Lehnsherr could not refute being at Dealey Plaza's grassy knoll on Nov. 22. Lehnsherr, however, insisted he did not assassinate the president.

When the court ordered him to prove his mutant abilities, Lehnsherr bent a metal crowbar with his mind. It took nearly five minutes for the court to return to order, transcripts say.

“I did not shoot your president,” Lehnsherr later told the jury. "But I know who did, and you'll never find her. She has a way of hiding in plain sight.”

Lehnsherr was found guilty of first-degree murder and conspiring to assassinate Kennedy. He was sentenced to two consecutive life sentences in a federal correctional facility. 